cancer is very preventable when the
medical establishment acknowledge what I
know about this disorder what's causing
it and what we're not doing to prevent
it or treated it it will be recognized
as the greatest tragedy in the history
of medicine Thomas CA freed is a
professor of biology genetics and
biochemistry who has dedicated the past
30 years Gathering scientific evidence
on what could be the true origin and
prevention of cancer cancer is getting
worse and there's no major advance in
reducing death rates and I can speak to
the reasons for that all major cancer
research PL think cancer is a genetic
disease you believe otherwise it's not
whether you believe it's what the data
tell us and the evidence is massive to
support that cancer is a metabolic
disorder and the problem is we're doing
everything we possibly can in our
lifestyle to induce it the scientific
evidence is there like for example we
know that cancer was extremely rare in
African tribes that were living
according to the traditional ways but
when modern lifestyle entered into their
societies cancer out of control we even
did a study on THS we know that wolves
in the wild don't die from cancer but
cancer is the number one killer of
domestic dogs why it's because of our
lifestyle issues and a lot of us are
doing things without the knowledge that
it would put us at risk but with
metabolic therapy you can use it as both
a prevention and a treatment and we're
seeing more and more of terminal cancer
patients outliving their
predictabilities because of this and let
me tell you one thing and remember it if
you do metabolic therapy you can
actually reduce risk for cancer you can
take away the fear and when you say
metabolic therapy tell me what those
things are number one
before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you two months
ago 74% of people that watched this
channel didn't subscribe we're now down
to
69% my goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guests get
thank you and enjoy this
episode Professor C
if someone walks up to you on the street
and they're you know they know nothing
about science and they know nothing
about medicine Etc and they asked you
what do you do and why do you do it how
would you respond I'm a professor of
biology at Boston College so uh in that
role I spent a lot of my time working
with undergraduates and graduate
students in training them to be
scientific literate in in various
aspects of biology the research program
that we have at the University is also
Focus fed on understanding uh how to
manage cancer better how it originates
and how to prevent it how much of a
problem is cancer globally what are the
sort of headline statistics on the macro
view of cancer for someone that really
doesn't know yeah well it's getting
worse uh I can't say there it's in the
millions I I I know precisely what's
going on in this country because the
American Cancer Society uh every year uh
distributes the data on on cancer um we
have almost two million new cases
diagnosed per year in the United
States and we have 1,700 people a day
dying from cancer in in the United
States which comes to about 70 people
per hour in the United States now when I
went to China I looked at some numbers
there and it was
8,000 people a day are dying from cancer
obviously the population is so much
larger
and uh I don't know what it is in the UK
I mean we'd have to go to their cancer
Registries but but what we do know is
that it's supposed to be a lot worse by
2050 than it is today so there seems to
be no reduction in death suffering for
this disease and I I can speak to the
the reasons for that but right now I
would say it's a global uh epidemic of
cancer it's not it's not getting better
it's getting worse more people are dying
from it there's no major advance in in
reducing death rates so it's a great
tragedy so um and when we when we
understand what's causing it and what
we're not doing to prevent it or treat
it it'll it'll be recognized as the
singular greatest tragedy in the history
of of medicine worldwide when it when
when they come to know what I know about
this disorder and then they realize what
we've been doing in in in in in a
misdirected way it will be recognized as
the greatest tragedy in the history of
medicine what Tye types of cancer are
people dying from what is the most
popular types of cancer for men and
women well it's always been lung cancer
pretty much for men and women uh lung
cancer has always been the number one
but but we have pancreatic breast cancer
colon cancer these are all on the rise
colon cancer is on the rise pancreatic
cancer is on the rise in this country I
I I I can't speak for other countries
they may dare very slightly due to diet
lifestyle issues but lung cancer has
always been recognized as as the number
one cancer how many people in the United
States then based on the statistics
would develop cancer well it seems to
increase every year so it's kind of a
moving Target it doesn't seem to go down
you know what it is today I don't know
but what I do know is the numbers of
people that are dying each day because
the um American Cancer Society comes out
with I think it's 612,000
people uh will die this year
2024 uh from cancer
in this year so divide it by 365 and it
comes out to just about 1,700 people a
day divide that number by 24 and you get
about 70 people an hour based on the
numbers provided to us from the American
Cancer Society when they say we've made
major advances in man in cancer
incidences right so in the 1990s they
instituted the uh anti-smoking campaigns
all right so today if you read they say
we have reduced cancer deaths by 30 31
or 32% wow that sounds really impressive
so what they do is they take the number
this is what the national the American
Cancer Society has done and published in
their papers okay if we didn't stop
smoking in the 90s and everybody
continued to smoke the trajectory would
be very very high because we stopped
smoking or this it's we have 33% lower
death than if we didn't stop smoking but
the trajectory is continuing to increase
maybe not as steep as it would have been
had we continued to smoke so it's it was
clearly a prevention it had nothing to
do with a a treatment it had to do with
prevention that was giving the the the
oh we've made major advances in in
reducing cancer death rate yeah because
people sto smoking for the mo for many
many people more people would have died
had they not smoked so we have um people
that are not not real people we're just
looking at what would have happened if
if we didn't stop smoking what are the
leading causes of death worldwide in
terms of diseases is is I I hear that
heart disease is number one I think
that's heart disease is number one uh
cancer is number two okay and there are
many different types of cancer right
there's hundreds of different forms of
cancer if you look under the electron
microscope or a correction even a light
micro this is how most cancers are
diagnosed by by light
microscopy uh you look under the
microscope and you see a bunch of cells
that are dysmorphic in the way they look
and then they all have genetic defects
and all this kind of stuff but they all
have one thing in common they depend on
a on a fermentation energy without
oxygen so all cancers are a singular
type of disease it's just that they
happen in different tissues but when you
look at the underlying problem they're
all very very similar they can't live uh
without a fermentation which means
energy without oxygen so that's the
common pathophysiological problem in all
cancers whether it's a colon brain
breast bladder skin uh lung we we've
looked at all these cancers and they're
all they're all essentially using the
same mechanism to to grow out of control
so what is that F fermentation you
mentioned fermentation is energy without
oxy what does that mean uh we breathe
air and we uh exhale CO2 and water vapor
and those are the waste products of the
food that we eat we break everything is
broken down and combusted in our
mitochondria of the cell and the waste
products are Co 2 and water Vapors those
are the waste products but if you and I
were to stop breathing for any
particular time period uh uh our bodies
would fill up with uh lactic acid and
succinic acid like if we were to have a
heart attack or when somebody has a
heart attack um they don't die instantly
uh if if they if they're there without
for five or seven minutes without oxygen
they they may die because the brain dies
but if you can get the heart to beat
again and get oxygen back in the system
you can come alive again but when we
have that massive Interruption of oxygen
into our body um the cells fall back on
an ancient they up they immediately turn
on these ancient Pathways to get energy
without oxygen for a short period of
time and that's the sugar glucose which
is already in our bloodstream from the
food we eat and the amino acid glutamine
which is a high amino acid in our
bloodstreams highest level of amino acid
is the glutamine these two fuels are now
burned for energy obtain energy without
oxygen there's no there's a these
Pathways upregulate and you can get ATP
which is energy to keep you alive for a
short period of time but your
bloodstream is filling up with the waste
products called lactic acid and succinic
acid lactic acid is coming from glucose
to sugar and succinic acid is coming
from the amino acid glutamine and they
build up and that tells you you're
fermenting you're getting energy without
oxygen because you're not breathing very
simple you're not breathing but I'm Not
Dead Yet now of course if you don't get
it for very long you die it's just that
now the other way you can stop uh
oxygenation in our bodies quickly is
with the poison cyanide so if we God
forbid we were to take cyanide we'd be
both dead within within a minute we just
just because our bodies are completely
shut down of energy from oxygen now
here's the cancer cell the cancer cell
lives in in can live in in cyanide
cyanide does not kill a tumor okay War a
warberg showed this a long time ago and
we've also shown the same thing in our
lab others have shown this the
interesting thing is when you look at
cancer cells even in the presence of
oxygen even in oxygen they're throwing
out lactic acid and succinic acid what
does that mean that means the en the
organ organel inside the cell that
generates energy is not efficient it's
inefficient and the cells are using
ancient fermentation and when I say
ancient fermentation you have to realize
the Earth is 4 and a half billion years
old um the organisms that existed on our
planet uh two and a half billion years
ago were all fermenters there was no
oxygen in the atmosphere till the
photosynthetic bacteria started making
oxygen they were living cells they had
no oxygen and they were growing like
crazy unregulated growth just unreg
what's going on here and they would die
as soon as the mble fuels were
dissipated as they gobbled up everything
they would just die so they lived as
long as they could reproduce and have
fermentation fuels the cancer cell in
our body is doing nothing than falling
back on these ancient fermentation
Pathways that become accelerated up
regulated in the tumor cell because the
efficiency of the energy coming from the
mitochondria is now uh depleted it's
defective in many different ways so this
is very clear and this happens in lung
cancer colon canc we've looked at all
the major Cancers and we found out these
common defects are seen in all the
cancers so they're all very similar in
their metabolism they're very different
in what they look like under the
microscope lung doesn't look like colon
doesn't look like brain um they're very
different genetically they're all
different from each other but they're
all common in a in a dependency on this
ancient pathway of energy metabolism can
you take me back you mentioned a guy
called Walberg there yeah can you take
me back on the journey that the
scientific community or at least you
have been on to arrive at the conclusion
that the central sort of causal Factor
at least an indication of a causal
factor of cancer lies in this shift in
Energy Systems where did this
understanding start in in research well
it started with Oto warberg for sure uh
in the 1920s uh the other linkage before
I tell you what OT warberg did because I
was like everybody else I thought cancer
was a genetic disease and and I heard
about warberg didn't really know what
what he was talking about or invested
any time thinking about what he said but
Linda nebling was a PhD nursing student
at Case Western Reserve University and
in Ohio and she took these two little
hopeless kids brain cancer we call
hopeless cases when they have no um
predictability of long-term survival and
she gave them a ketogenic diet to lower
blood sugar and she was able to rescue
these kids one one one eventually died
the other one was lost to followup and
she said it her strategy was based on
what OT warberg had said about glucose
and cancer so then I said warberg I said
who the hell what let me go back and
check out who this guy was and what he
did because I was seeing similar things
in the in the mouse with that drug it
was lowering glucose and and we were sh
shrinking these tumor cells and we
published a paper uh the first one of
the first ever papers linking that how
high your blood sugar is determines how
fast your tumor will grow in the mice
and now how this been replicated in all
human cancers the higher your blood
sugar the faster the tumor grows the
lower the blood sugar the slower the
tumor grows undeniable for all different
human Mouse cancers wow so warberg had
said this a long time ago back in the
1920s he he was taking slices of all
kinds of human and rat mouse tumors and
slicing them up and he noticed something
really strange about these um cancers
they take in less oxygen compared to the
normal tissue from which they came wow
so they're kind of like oxygen deprived
and they were throwing out this lactic
acid waste product that he was that he
was saying and they were taking in so
much more glucose than the normal so the
normal cells take in just a little bit
of glucose and they can make tremendous
energy from a tiny amount this guy was
taking in huge amounts of glucose but
not fully metabolizing it to CO2 and
water but dumping it out as lactic acid
which is a a breakdown product of
glucose that is not fully metabolized in
the cell wow he said this is
unbelievable and then he did all kinds
of tissue I looked at his data was
unbelievable he was cutting humans mice
rats and seeing the same thing over and
over again and uh he was saying the
origin of cancer has to do with
something in the ability of the
mitochondrian the organel to generate
efficient energy from oxygen so the
sorry the mitochondria is the part of
the cell that creates energy it's the
part of the cell that creates energy
through oxidative phosphorilation which
is burning energy using oxygen okay okay
so it's like an engine it's an engine a
very highly efficient engine that this
is an organel you have to realize we
have the cell yeah and we have a nucleus
that every everybody knows about this
nucleus and then we have all these
little organel in there we have lomes
and we have the mitochondrian which is
like a spaghetti Network inside the cell
they fuse it's actually a second living
it's a second living organism inside our
cells and to simplify what they do the
mitochondria they convert oxygen and
glucose into energy yes and they combust
uh energy uh they they take the foods
that we eat have carbon hydrogen bonds
okay and we break those down inside our
mitochondria and we and we and we when
we break those bonds down we create a a
hydrogen gradient and we dissipate that
gradient through an impeller mechanism
that generates energy like crazy it's
unbelievable very efficient highly
efficient but the cancer cell has
corruption in that system but it doesn't
happen overnight as warberg said if you
break that system too acutely and too
fast the cell will die it doesn't have
the so you have to have two things to
get from oxidative phosphorilation to uh
energy with with with minimal oxygen
fermentation sorry just to keep it
simple from a normal cell to a cancer
cell from a normal cell to a cancer cell
doesn't happen overnight okay it's a
chronic damage to the ability of of that
organel inside the cell to generate
efficient energy okay so all we have to
know with cancer is that they're how are
they growing so rapidly why are they
going out of control how come it's so
hard to kill them because as long as you
have those fermentable fuels that drive
this ancient fermentation pathway um
they will continue to grow they're very
hard to kill and the fermenting fuels
are glucose and and glutamine glutamine
yeah okay so here let's let me tell you
in a nut are are you ready brace
yourself are you ready I'm ready are you
braced are you braced sufficiently bra
sufficient he's sufficiently braced okay
so uh a solution to the cancer problem
to manage cancer without toxicity is to
simultaneously restrict the two fuels
that are needed to drive this
disregulated growth while transitioning
the whole body off to a fuel that the
tumor cells can't use which is fatty
acids and Ketone bodies so when we take
the cancer patients or the mice we put
them into a calorie restriction lowering
the blood sugar uh that I said is one
half of the two fuels you can lower that
down really really low and then we use
specific drugs to Target the glutamine
and together we can selectively restrict
the two fuels while we transition the
whole body over to to ketones we as a
species evolved to be in nutritional
ketosis for the the majority of our
existence as a as a species like one and
a half million years for for centuries
and centuries thousands and thousands of
years our species you and me our
ancestors were always in a state of
nutritional ketosis because there was
very few carbohydrates in the
environment for them to be consuming
right so the cancer cell the body you
and I could if we stopped eating and we
took a low carbohydrate diet and just
did water only fasting we would get into
nutritional ketosis where the normal
cells our brain our kidneys our heart
can be burning these Ketone bodies
because they have a good mitochondria
and they can burn these fuels
effectively the tumor cells have a bad
mitochondria they can't burn those fuels
they're dependent on glucose and
glutamine we can replace glucose and
glutamine with Ketone bodies in the
normal cells of our so we selectively
marginalize these tumor cells slowly
over time uh we they slowly start to Die
the blood vessels disappear and the body
comes in and dissolves them so for
someone that has never heard the term
keto before ketosis or ketones in a
simple way what are KET ketones ketones
are water soluble breakdown products of
fatty acids okay they're beta hydroxy
beate acetoacetate these are small
molecules that are water soluble the
liver throws them out like crazy kidney
a little bit but mostly liver so as I
told you earlier when we don't eat
um you you get anxious mainly because
our brains are addicted to glucose it's
like cocaine and nicotine and whatever
you start getting all antsy haven't
eaten anything you know uh what's going
on um so you then once the body realizes
you ain't going to eat anything we have
to start mobilizing out of our fat
resources and the fats uh go into the
bloodstream as triglycerides which are
three fatty acids attached to a glycerol
backbone they go to the liver the liver
chops them up and puts out these little
water soluble Ketone bodies that the
name Ketone body is kind of a weird
thing from biochemistry but but they're
called Ketone bodies um and they can
supply the brain with energy the heart
with energy and not only that they're a
super fuel it's unbelievable that
mitochondria Burns these ketones okay
but they ener remember I was talking
about how energy efficient the
mitochondria become when they burn
ketones they become even more energy
efficient it's unbelievable how you you
they don't need as much oxygen to
generate more en that's why they my
colleagues called and some of the greats
in the bio in the biochemistry field
called them super super fuel because you
can get more energy bang for buck
burning a ketone body than you can
burning a pyruvate coming from glucose
or even a fatty acid uh and the
biochemistry for that is is interesting
but but the bottom line is when you
transition away from these fuels to ke
we don't forget we evolved our our
ancestors were always in a state of
ketosis you get into that state by
consuming very few carbohydrates and
having a lot of energy and this is the
way our ancestors were so what can we
learn from our ancestors about cancer
how prevalent was cancer um when we look
back at our ancestors if they were often
in a state of ketosis yeah well um it's
hard to determine uh from skeletal
records uh but I think we can look at U
um modern pop modern man who live
according to their traditional ways um
you know uh Albert schwitzer the Great
humanitarian physician went to Africa
and looked at Africans that were living
according to the traditional ways and he
said one of the weirdest things they
don't have cancer it was like what what
uh cancer was extremely rare in Africans
in ints living in in the in the areas
British when they came you know in in in
looking at the health conditions of
folks that lived in the Arctic Circle
cancer was not there they had other
things but they didn't have cancer um
Aboriginal folks so it seems as though
uh our living we we can't go back 50,000
years ago because we don't have people
to examine but we have people to examine
today and that was one of the things
schwitzer and several other Physicians
from Europe would go to Africa and they
would look at these some of these tribes
that were traditional and they would say
whoa what's going on with these Africans
how come they don't have but when modern
diet lifestyle entered into their
societies cancer out of control what
about what about our the primate cousins
yeah um there's never been a documented
uh case a breast cancer in a female
chimpanzee uh and they're 98% similar to
us in Gene and protein sequence uh you
know what's going on with that um
monkeys uh they don't generally form
cancer they're eating they're not eating
what we eat okay don't forget we did not
evolve to eat pork pies and Dunkin
Donuts jelly fil donnuts and pizzas we
did not our ancestors did not eat this
right we were killing and eating Animals
As I said we ate everything that walked
crawled flew or swam on this planet
became part of our diet um we did not
have Donuts on every corner delicate
essin on every corner our we evolved
over this period of time just like our
primate ancestors uh the animals chimps
and gorillas and things that you see in
the zoos are fed their natural diets as
if they were living in in their habitat
their natural habitat whether it was in
South America Africa or wherever it was
were're not throwing in jelly donuts
every day and pizza pie into the
chimpanzee pen and as a matter of fact I
even went to the zoo down down here in
in Boston Franklin Park Zoo and also at
the San Diego Zoo I said how come how
come you guys don't give these guys run
down and get a big pizza for these for
these animals oh no it' be animal
cruelty their systems aren't Geared for
this well neither are
we we have an obesity epidemic we have
all these different chronic diseases why
we didn't have to eat all this crap that
we're eating today so what I've told
many people in these podcasts is that
our food science and technology and our
society's technology has evolved so much
faster than our biology can you explain
to me in simple terms the role the
exercises playing in staving of cancer
well exercise lowers blood sugar you
know you and and also lowers glutamine
so uh the two fuels that are driving uh
now we can't completely remove glutamine
by exercise that's for sure um but we my
my late good friend George kahill
published some papers on showing how
exercise could actually lower uh
glutamine availability so it's a it's a
little bit of a push but you're also
when you exercise you're burning and
you're not eating a lot of carbs your
mitochondria burning ketones and the
oxygenation from all the exercise is
keeping those mitochondria super healthy
at their highest level of Energy
Efficiency so exercise you're building
muscle as well aren't you yeah you're
building well you can build muscle but
you're certainly getting aerobic
exercise to oxygen is coming in and
you're burning ketones which I already
told you is a super fuel so your body is
super healthy uh these bodies from the
Paleolithic period these men were jacked
there was no obesity in these people
they had tremendous energy they're
they're not dying from uh the things
that are killing us they're dying from
injuries and infections when you
described this slow and gradual shift in
the cell as it moves to this sort of
ancient system it sounded very gradual
so in my I thought okay so does that
mean that the cancer is a gradual
process that is kind of building up in
me or isn't building up in Me based on
the lifestyle decisions I'm making and
my environmental factors right
now like I'm trying to say does is does
cancer start
slowly years before you you you know you
find it is a gradual process but it can
be impacted by several provocative
Agents from the from the micro
environment um lack of exercise okay so
we're not exercising nearly as much as
our Paleolithic ancestors Bar None right
we have massive amounts of processed
carbs in our diets we have a lot of
emotional stress uh um mental emotional
stress that's impacting negatively on on
our
biology um we we have lack of sleep
sleep uh a lot of us because we we have
stresses you you have to have when you
put all of these impact act ful things
together in one person you can put
yourself at risk for Cancer all of which
will damage and reduce the efficiency of
mitochondria and also the joy of living
uh having friends and friendships and
and this kind of thing reduces stress in
a lot of different ways makes people
enjoy getting up and and having a a nice
day rather than being depressed or or
these kinds of things um you put all all
this together and you put yourself in a
a diet and lifestyle that puts you at
risk for damage to oxidative
phosphorilation and the transition from
one form of energy to a fermentation
energy and what I'm trying to understand
is that a it's a grad a gradual
transition you have to be able to do
that and how long does it take for a
colon a group of cells in a in a in a
crypt of your colon to transition from
one stage to another you have to be
constantly under stress those cells and
that organ now why somebody gets colon
cancer another person gets breast cancer
another person gets black cancer and
some person gets a brain cancer and all
these different kinds of cancers what
whatever happened the process was dis
was causing a gradual disruption of
oxidative phosphorilation oxidative
respiration and a and a gradual
transition to a fermentation like in the
brain the neurons rarely if ever get
cancer but the gal cells that support
neurons they are usually the source of
the origin of cancer in the brain for
those kinds of cells and you can look at
different cells and some are more or
less prone and why this guy got lung
cancer from from smoking cigarettes this
guy got bladder cancer from smoking
cigarettes how did it all start it all
started from a population of cells in
one of those organs having an a chronic
not instant a chronic Interruption of
oxidative energy followed by an
upregulation of this fermentation energy
so really we need to be thinking about
all the things that have caused
dysfunction in the mitochondria
absolutely I want to get a list of the
key things that are associated with
causing this dysfunction okay
carcinogens okay so carcinogens and you
know there's many asbesto there's all
kinds of chemicals in the environment
you hear about this oh there's a whole
list of carcinogens we and they put them
on the on the labels on different
chemicals they say carcinogenic
potential and whatever you have what are
the types of things that are C cogenic
that most people don't realize oh well
now we're talking about microplastics
we're talking about um is that in part
what causes breast cancer cuz I always
think about dooen with breast cancer and
and the stuff that we're kind of
lathering onto our arm yeah well the the
one that was was most interesting was
the talcum powder one how does talcum
powder would cause ovarian cancer okay
it's taken up into the urogenital tract
and it forms a fosi in in a part of the
ovarian tissue what's a fosi a Locus
like a collection of material a fosi is
a an area where say talum materials
would be
accumulating and that leads to a
inflammatory
um area of the body and our immune
system comes in to see what's going on
our immune system is a healing machine
and they see something that's not not
normal normally they would clean it up
but they throw grow cyto kindes and
growth factors on there leading to
disregulated damage to mitochondria and
disregulated it and then you get this
tumor that starts so if I get a talcum
powed uh granule or whatever and it goes
into my body my body then tries to
attack it to sort of out and in doing so
it creates inflammation which leads to
damage to mitochondria in a particular
group of cells near that fosi okay and
this this is applicable to I guess a lot
of different Nano particles and yeah and
microplastics are this now they're
looking at this but then we have
chemical carcinogens tetrahydrochloride
there's all kinds of other things that
can actually damage arsenics and and
these kinds of chemicals um urethane uh
anything that could chronically damage
uh a mitochondrian forcing over time for
ing it to upregulate the fermentation
energy without oxygen isn't this most
things I'm trying to figure out what I
how to live my life yeah well that's
what that that's why it was called the
oncogenic Paradox but but you can you
can avoid that that's why I'm saying if
you can keep your mitochondria healthy
how exercise and reduce uh consumption
of Highly processed carbohydrates do I
need to be avoiding these microplastics
as well you you know the problem with
microplastics they're very ubiquitous
we're not really sure uh we just now
becoming aware of it nobody really knew
that before um look it up it's but it
could it could cause U small fosi in
different populations of cells but you
know it's very hard to really
chronically damage mitochondria
mitochondria a tough organel the problem
is we are chronically abuse it without
realizing what we need to do to keep it
healthy so even if you are exposed to
chemical carcinogens even if you are
exposed to all these things but you're
keeping your body as healthy as you
possibly can you could possibly delay or
even prevent the damage to the
mitochondria even though you have the
even though you are being exposed to
this so it's a it's actually in your
hands um you can actually reduce
risk for cancer by knowing what keeps
your mitochondria healthy vigorous
exercise uh fasting water only fasting
um you know it's very hard some but
sometimes we when we were putting mice
on calorie restriction it was hard to
get them to get tumors their body was so
healthy this was shown Years Ago by by a
couple of scientists in mice using mice
with that developed a lot of breast
cancer if you put them on a calorie
restricted diet the incidence was way
way down so cancer is very preventable
it's a very preventable uh disorder it's
just that we're doing everything we
possibly can induce it in our diet
lifestyle a lot of big institutions
believe that cancer is a genetic
problem
um you believe otherwise the evidence is
striking I mean to believe it's not
whether you believe it's what the data
tell us okay so according to the somatic
mutation theory of cancers mutations in
the nucleus lead to disregulated cell
growth that's the sematic mutation
theory in the mitochondrial metabolic
Theory it's a transition from oxidative
phosphorilation to to a fermentation
metabolism inside inside the cell um the
mutations are largely irrelevant what do
you mean by that when the mitochondria
become defective they throw out
Ros reactive oxygen species that are
carcinogenic and mutogenic W what does
that mean causing mutations so a lot of
the mutations that we see in the nucleus
of the tumor cell that is the subject of
the sematic mutation Theory are
Downstream effects of the dysfunction of
the mitochondria so the mitochondria is
causing a downstream effect which are
mutations which according to the sematic
mutation Theory are the cause of the
disregulated cell growth let me tell you
why that's absolutely
untrue there's some cancer cells growing
out of control have no mutations and
normally not discuss how can that be
that's a a challenge to the theory if
the theory says that all cancers have
mutations and you have some cancers that
have no mutations and they're growing
out of control that should say who bell
ring one uh then they the the sematic
mutation uh people people who think this
said oh okay we have we have a problem
here not all mutations are the ones that
cause the disregulated only some and we
have a name for those some that's called
driver mut okay now it's a nice term
because some of those mutations are
called passengers they don't really do
anything but the drivers are the ones
that lead to the disregulated cell
growth so we should be focusing our
attention on these driver mutations new
evidence from the recent scientific
literature can you believe this they're
taking tissue normal tissues from
patients different organs and things
like this from not patients from normal
people no cancer perfectly like yourself
here we would take tissue from you and
say oh my Christ look at the you got
driver mutation in your esophagus and
your different parts of your body you
got driver but you don't have a tumor
what's going on with that how you
explain that these driver mutations are
causing disregulated cell growth when we
have thousands of driver mutations that
are there that are not causing
disregulated cell growth oh okay that's
a another problem the biggest
devastating information against the
somatic mutation theory is if you take
the nucleus from a tumor cell cleanly
take it out of the tumor cell and you
have another normal cell here you take
the nor the nucleus out of the normal
cell and you put the tumor cell into
that cytoplasm you get regulated growth
no disregulated growth but if I have the
normal cell and have a tumor cell take
the tumor nucleus out of there and take
the normal nucleus and put it into the
tumor cytoplasm which contains
mitochondri defective mitoch
disregulated cell Dr this has been seen
over and over and over again so just to
summarize that so if you take the tumor
nucleus side of the cell and put it into
a a normal healthy cell yes um
everything's fine everything is fine but
if you take take healthy cell nucleus
and put it into a tumor cell you still
have the same dis regulated cell growth
tumor growth so which means that it's
not the nucleus absolutely it's
something else it's something else and
that's the mitochondria and I told you
then you have cancer cells with no
mutations and then you have driver
mutations and normal cells that never
become cancer you put all those things
together and you have to be uh a
hopeless
ideologue to think that cancer is a
genetic disease um it's a silent
assumption in the field that cancer is a
genetic every textbook of biology cell
biology and bio cancer is a genetic
disease why hasn't people's opinions
changed despite the evidence that you
present it's a very difficult thing it
goes back to um when you have one Theory
replacing another theory it's called
Paradigm Paradigm shifts and in all in
history of science Paradigm shifts have
been met with great great resistance uh
the clear the clearest one was the
Kernan Revolution
when uh for eight
1,800 years astronomers in
our early Astron astronomers thought the
Earth was immovable in the center of the
solar system for 1,000 this was Claudius
TMI Aristotle and the Bible and all
these Earth is immovable and the Sun and
the Moon and the planets all revolve
around the earth 1,800 years even
Cernic's uh was working with these
mathematical formulations this kep was
being constantly confused until he said
what happens if we put the sun in the
center of the solar system and consider
the Earth as simply another planet that
would revolve oh all of a sudden things
started to make sense and gardano Bruno
uh a theologian was put to death for
suggesting that cernus was right um
there was a tremendous resistance on the
part of the Roman Catholic Church at
that time and this is the same thing
that happened when when and um Lewis
Pastor said the germs the germs rather
than bad air are the cause of disease so
uh and when Darwin Wallace theory of
evolution came it's not special creation
it's it's natural selection that that
can explain this these were massive
Paradigm changes in the history of
Science and what we're seeing today is
the same thing the mitochondria is the
center of the problem with cancer not
the nucleus the mitochondria it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease and once
you realize that we're going to drop
these death rates massively in a very a
number of years for sure so if we take
two paths then if we realize that that
the mitochondria is the center of the
dysfunction and ultimately disease in
the cell yes if we go that down that
path what impact do you think that will
have on the canc cancer statistics over
the coming years it'll drop it massively
okay I'm not going to say we'll get rid
of cancer completely uh but here's the
thing we may never get rid of it but we
can learn to live with it and keep it at
Bay if if we know how to if we know that
it can't survive without these two fuels
and you can do a diet and lifestyle that
can restrict the availability of those
two fuels and keep your mitochondria as
healthy as you possibly can what if we
don't go down that path what you think
then you're going to be right one out of
two people are going to be having cancer
that your statistics are going to be U
AB absolutely correct is there anybody
that you believe because you know when
we talk about these subjects often we
think of like big Farmer and the
incentives and money and follow the
money and you'll figure out why people
don't want change are is any of that
sort of conspiratorial
thinking correct in your view are they I
don't know if that's conspiracy I don't
like conspiracy terms that's absurds I
like what are the facts of what we're
looking at but do you see a resistance
from Big farmer to entertain this point
of view um what do you think what do you
think I mean do you think this is I mean
you're making a lot of not you but but
people in these in that those Industries
the hospital industry is making enormous
amounts of money they're rewarding we
get uh7 billion a year for cancer
research in the in the in in the
National Cancer Institute awarding gr
many many not all many grants to look at
for gene mutations and all this kind of
stuff um and we have drugs that are
extremely expensive based on a sematic
mutation theory of cancer that are
basically not dropping the death rate as
I said we got while we're talking here
we're g to have 140 people dead uh from
cancer uh 1,700 people years getting
worse and worse um with as you said
we're always running for raising money
for cancer research uh where's all that
money going what are you doing with all
that money no accountability and then
when you look at the scientific advisory
committee of all these societies that
you're running for they all think
published papers on cancer as a genetic
disease it's too hard for the field to
accept at this point um it's it's too
traumatic at what I'm saying it's too
disruptive to a a massive industry uh at
this time they will come to gradually
adjust to what I'm saying it's just a
matter of time because we cannot
continue this trajectory it's immoral
what we're doing to some of these people
I read a St that said the global
incidence of early onset cancer
increased by roughly 80% between 1990
yeah and 2019 that's in the bmj oncology
um early onset of cancer is basically
patients under the age of 50 and and
when I think about this you know growing
up in the UK whenever there's a a fun
run a charity race a marathon whatever
it might be cancer research get the
money yeah and to hear that you know
there's been so much money invested in
cancer research over the last couple of
decades but there's been an increase of
80% in early onset cancer in the same
period for me I'm
like this research doesn't appear to be
do being very effective well as I said
you got to find what people don't do is
they never ask where's the research go
what kind of research what what are you
doing what is the research it's the
theory that drives the the impetus to do
research now a lot of great stuff has
been done on
you know keeping people alive that
suffer from cancers right because if you
think about the probability of dying
from a
cancer I'm I'm assuming that has gone
down yeah uh to some extent it has you
know we call there's two ways of looking
it's called Uh progression free survival
and overall survival uh these are the
terminologies that are used in the
clinical world of cancer uh uh and they
represent the approval of drugs through
the Food and Drug
Administration if you have a drug that
improves a progression free survival
uh progression free means it looks like
the drug is working on the tumor um
because you know the tumor you can see
it it gets bigger and bigger and more
lethal and more lethal and and if I see
it not growing nearly as much uh I say
wow look at the it's it's slowing the
what we call traditional progression
okay it's called progression free
survival and then you have overall
survival so you have two ways to approve
drugs mostly for cancer right how does
it work on aggression free survival and
how does it work on overall survival
well they stop looking at overall
survival now somebody's going to bark
and say well you know bottom line is
mostly progression free which means that
the patients it looks like the tumor is
being effectively managed but they live
only a couple of months longer than they
would have if they didn't use this drug
so therefore it's approved and and and
um that as opposed to overall survival
you know you're only living a two okay
You' lived two and a half extra months
the tumor looked like it was manage
pretty well but your overall survival is
is this much but you you didn't see the
tumor growing uh we're going to improve
that drug so a lot of the new drugs that
we're giving do a really good job at
progression free survival but they do a
horrible job in keeping people alive
much longer which ultimately is what you
want to do you want overall survival let
me give you an example avastin uh bismid
this this is an immoral drug that should
never be used on people it was blocked
because it caused colon perforations in
women with breast cancer they still use
it on brain cancer and when you so the
in the tumor you got a A tumor you can
see it with PET Imaging and you can not
so much pet MRI and Cat Scan you can see
it there and it's looking there okay uh
you can see it now you give the patient
a vaston and uh which is this um
anti-angiogenic drug it's supposed to
stop the abnormal blood vessels right
they think that the angiogenesis blood
vessels is is driving the disregulated
growth it's the fermentation that's
driving the just regulated growth by the
way so all of a sudden you give the the
tumor kind of disappears it doesn't look
like it whoa patient gets all excited
The Physician looks and says look at
that look at the looks like you're doing
well what it does the EV what the drug
does is it causes the
tumors permeate your enti your entire
brain just like spreading it through
your whole brain you don't live any
longer uh but you had this progression
free look at the tumor so the patient
gets excited because it looks like the
tumor's disa appearing with this very
expensive drug but what it does is it
almost guarantees that that patient will
not survive because you spread the tumor
cells through the whole brain so um this
is why I call it an immoral kind of a
thing but chemotherapy and sort of these
radiation therapies they have proven to
keep people alive who otherwise would
have died in some cases they it can and
and that's another thing we have to look
at we have and I I work heavily in brain
tumors and G blastomas and things like
that when you irradiate somebody's brain
uh who has one of these tumors you free
up massive amounts of glucose and
glutamine in the micro environment and
if you look at the survival when we did
survival looked at survival curves for
gleo blast throughout the world oh it's
un you can't even design experiments so
consistent how fast people will die it's
like all the different hospitals have
the same survival same survival what are
you doing well we do chemo we do
surgical debulking uh T olomide and we
give steroids which raise blood sugar
and we irradiate we irradiate we
irradiate everybody's dead so um not
everybody but you know fiveyear survival
is is very very low 10e survival is
almost zero um but if you go if you got
a breast cancer or if you got this is
brain cancer I'm talking about this is
freeing up now yes if you have a
circumscribed tumor and it's not
anywhere else you can come in with a
radiation or surgical procedure and cure
essentially cure that patient but if you
have any level of spread or anything
like this um that that person now and
also if you're taking a toxic poison
into your body like Red Devil docar
rubison they call it Red Devil your P
turns red everything turns red what is
that is that chemotherapy yes is a
chemotherapy to kill a small group of
cells um or maybe a little bit of a
spread but your your hair falls out your
body gets brutalized uh by this and then
if you survive the cancer and many
people do we have millions and millions
of cancer survivers on this planet but
many many folks in that group suffer
from the adverse effects of being p
poisoned or irradiated or surgically
mutilated I mean they have to change
their whole and often times the cancer
comes back or they die from
cardiovascular disease or they die from
secondary adverse effects of being
brutalized uh with medieval I call it
medieval approaches to this are you
kidding me what they're doing to cancer
patients so when we do metabolic therapy
we we shrink the tumor down for sure
then the surgeon can come in and he sees
it smaller fewer blood vessels because
of the metab therapy and we can take out
a greater amount uh of of this and then
we transition back to prevent this tumor
from recurring metabolic therapy can be
used to not only prevent the cancer but
can also be used to treat the cancer now
let me tell you go most hospitals
suppose people say well you know I
really want to do things to prevent
cancer can I do standard of care before
I have a tumor what do you mean you want
to go into a uh major Cancer Clinic and
have toxic doxorubicin and radiation to
your body just in the event that you
might get a cancer this is absurd but
yet when you have cancer that's what
they do to you right but with metabolic
therapy you can use it as both a
prevention and a treatment it's just
that with a treatment we bring in some
more drugs to Target the glutamine we
don't do that on the prevention side on
the I was just looking at some stats as
you were speaking around the fiveyear
survival rates of a variety of different
cancers um over time and it does appear
that survival rates of these cancers
from breast cancer to prostate cancer to
lung cancer to leukemias um and various
melanomas has improved since the
1970s so the 1970s to the 1990s to the
2010s there's been an improvement in the
survival rate um which I guess is a
credit to the research that's been done
um what you're saying is that this the
treatments we have still today are
horrific yeah and the and the survivals
are not that much greater it's not like
you're getting massively longer
survivals yeah I mean and I have to I I
have to preface that these stats might
not be right because this is AI we're
dealing with here but the there's a 5%
for example with breast cancer between
the 1990s and 2010 there's just a 5%
difference in overall survival in
overall survival okay so your survival
your overall survival is two and a half
to three months greater I I don't
actually have those stats in no but
that's that's that's the the evidence
the papers that we're looking at so so
how do we
prevent prevent this then I'm 32 years
old now so I want to make sure that I
live my life in such a way that I limit
my chance of cancer one of the things I
always reflect on is the fact that many
of the people that I know that have got
cancer breast cancer or other forms of
cancer appear to be remarkably healthy
yeah always at the
beginning there there not always but
many times the person comes in gee I
just was diagnosed with cancer I didn't
know I had it I didn't feel bad I didn't
and then all of a sudden you get treated
and they look like death warmed over but
I'm saying like how can how can healthy
people be getting cancer if there's this
sort of central well because you I as I
said are the the the the and we're
seeing this I'm seeing it in my own I'm
getting more and more emails from young
people in their 30s uh late 20s 30s
early 40s like with colon cancer breast
cancer and all these kinds of things but
look at our diet and lifestyle situation
today those those things that I'm
talking about lack of exercise a lot of
stress poor sleep bad food all of this
kind of stuff impacting parts of our
bodies so what do we do about it though
know about it and then and then what do
we do so I know that's personal choice
I'm not here to take pieces and and
jelly donuts off the market for sure or
breakfast here I love that stuff too but
the qu the question is I don't eat it
every day and I know if I do it'll kill
me so so yeah skipping meals water only
fat occasionally there's a lot of things
you can do to keep your mitochondria
healthy okay so tell me what those
things are I just exercise you look like
you're a pretty healthy guy yeah I go to
I go to the gym you don't look morbidly
obese to me not not yet not yet well
that's important because you don't ever
want it yet we would't be in America too
long so my chan well and listen it's not
just the United States we were kind of
like the first ones to plow that field
but it's starting to spread everywhere I
think in China they have the most 200
million obese people in China now so
should I be on a keto diet then here's
what we did okay uh we developed the
glucose Ketone index calculator at
Boston College all right my students and
I because we were trying to uh work with
cancer patients blood sugar and ketones
um independently of each other we had a
ketone meter and we had a blood glucose
meter so we were monitoring ketones by
itself and glucose by itself and we
worked with a very nice woman U from
American who lived in East France who
since passed away from a brain stem
tumor was very very difficult we kept
her alive very long but eventually we
didn't know what we need what we know
now but she got into an argument for a
handicapped parking spot with her
neighbor upstairs and her blood sug and
blood sugar went through the roof she
ran upstairs and she took her blood
blood sugar and she says oh my God the
tumor is going to grow I said what's
your ketones and she says oh it's still
2 and a half Miller well that's still
pretty high usually it's very very low
it's very high so my students and I we
said you know this is too traumatic to
try to measure these two independently
why don't we make a singular number
divide the glucose in molar in the blood
by the Ketone and Molar in the blood now
you get this number that's much more
stable and it allows the cancer patient
to know that if I keep this Zone in 2.0
and below my tumor cells aren't going to
be able to grow very fast I did this for
the brain cancer right now it's being
used for all Cancers and now it's being
used for guys like yourself who just
want to stay healthy and because what it
is essentially is a quantitative
determination if you're in the
Paleolithic zone or not oh so if I'm at
2.0 like my friend Dominic the austino
he's always down in these zones he's
living the P he's a Paleolithic man
living in modern society what's a
Paleolithic man that's how our ancestors
were during the Paleolithic period okay
so he's got the right balance of glucose
and ketones in his blood like we did
when we were hunting mammoths and and
Buffalos and these kinds of things when
we were hunter gatherers in the
thousands of years of our existence as a
species tens of thousands of years he is
in that zone is he in keto yeah well
that's that's what the low gki is that
means you're at a level of Keto now yes
he doesn't eat a lot of carbohydrates in
his diets eats leafy vegetables and a
lot of meat and and this kind of thing
sparingly on fruits uh like grapefruits
we learned from the epilepsy field great
fruits provide a tremendous amount of
vitamin C with don't and do not Spike
glucose that's that's very interesting
so you can have uh certain fruits that
can keep you in this metabolic zone of P
I call it the Paleolithic Zone which is
the way we evolve with there was no
cancer in our in our existence when
people hear that they might start
jumping on the paleo diet I don't even
know what the not a paleo diet it's it's
diets that are low in carbohydrates okay
okay um Mediterranean diets like people
say to me at told God what should I eat
should I eat this and that normally you
would eat foods that have very low low
glycemic index which means the speed
with which glucose is released like a
banana very high in glycemic index you
eat a banana your blood sugar
immediately spikes many fruits are like
that um but you want you want foods that
keep a low steady uh uh gki now I built
that uh calculator for brain cancer
patients initially then we realize it's
powerful for all cancers uh we put the
cancer patient in the low glucose Ketone
index we get them down in there then we
come in with the glutamine targeting
drugs to to kind of polish off these
tumors or put them in even a more
dormant state but now we finding all
these young kid like yourself all these
30 20 year olds what's your gki I mean
they're out to weightlifting and they're
looking at their G they don't have
cancer they're just excited to see they
they can get into this Paleolithic Zone
by themselves and that yes that will
prevent cancer because you can't get
cancer if your mitochondria healthy if
if you're in a Paleolithic Zone where
our ancestors rarely have ever got
cancer then you're you're back in this
oh you me to tell me I can't eat this
and I can't eat that what does it do to
your gki oh Mak it go up well don't eat
that so you did a study on dogs a dog
with a tumor yes can you tell me about
that study it was a woman came to me and
this is what I say does you don't have
to have a a PhD in Biochemistry to
understand what some of the things this
woman had no degree whatsoever she just
heard the uh about what we did to these
mice and she did the same thing to her
dog um it was a pitbull and at aged
seven years old it had big mast cell
tumor on its lip so she listened to my
YouTube video over and over she said to
me I just kept listening then he says I
I got I I I I got some raw chicken she
says dogs wolves evolved to eat chickens
so she got some uh chicken Cho chopped
up the chicken she cut the calories of
she found some dog food calculator to
how much calories the dog was getting
she cut the calories the dog look lost
only 5% of its body weight
she got uh pollic fish oil raw eggs and
cut all the calories everything was all
natural for this dog um and all of a
sudden we have the pictures you can see
them in the P if you saw the picture big
big tumor on its lip that the the
veterinarians said this dog is gonna to
survive you have to give him chemo and
radiation and surgery and all this kind
of stuff and it's going to cost a lot of
money the dog's gonna have diarrhea it's
going to be you know she didn't want any
part of that so she said well let's just
try this metabolic thing and and she
kept all the records and the pictures
and what she did and how much she gave
the dog and all this so I was able to
get all that information from her um put
my friend Lauren Lauren Nations who was
a veterinarian uh on the paper because I
said what biology guy at Boston College
is telling you how to manage cancer in a
dog we got to have some veterinarian on
here to validate to make sure he's there
and he looked at the pictures and we
looked at all the thing and disappeared
so what happened was the dog eventually
died of heart disease at 15 and a 12
years years of age so essentially that's
the only when people say well metabolic
therapy cure cancer I I say metabolic
therapy is never considered a cure for
cancer it's an effective non-toxic
management for cancer but in the case of
that dog it appeared to work to cure the
dog but that's the only one I'll say oh
he's gonna say cure cannot that dog
happened to get he died from old age
from a heart heart attack and we did it
with a brain tumor guy Pablo Kelly who
just passed away unfortunately from a
from a surgical um his his uh had a a
major cerebral uh Hemorrhage after his
surgery from Devon England you know
Devon England that's where I'm from are
you from Devon yeah oh wow well Pablo
was there he just passed away
fortunately we've talking to him the day
before he passed away Pablo Pablo Kelly
so he was from Devon England had a gleo
blastoma which is the worst of the worst
uh they said and he's all over your your
newspapers there and Devon he was always
sending me articles from England um man
rejects standard of care so he he had
this gleo blastoma and they took the
tissue out which is brain cancer yeah
brain the worst of the brain cancers you
know uh they took the tumor out and they
said oh you it's in inoperable
inoperable and uh but if you do
radiation in chemo uh we you might live
nine maybe 12 months at the most well
Pablo came from a family of like we
don't dabble and and this kind of
medicine we're more holistic kind of
people so he emailed me this was in 2014
um and said I want to try this metabolic
thing so he rejected uh chemo and
radiation and they said it wasn't
surgically capable of being completely
removed anyway so he did this I I gave
him the information that I give to
everybody and this was way back before
we knew a lot of what we now know and uh
I said this poor guy he sees another one
and they said you're going to be dead
they they brow beat him they try to
force him to put the radiation mask on
they hacked his beard off uh all this
kind of stuff and he just jumped up he
said I can't do this stuff so um he
didn't take any steroids he didn't take
any any radiation he didn't take any
chemo he just did the metabolic therapy
and he's on English telev or things with
all of his paleo diet which actually a
low very low carbohydrate diet he had
the avocados there he had the fish oil
there he had this different
stuff two three years go by he emails me
I said gez Pablo I thought you would
have been dead you're still alive what's
going on with that
so so he calls me up and he says you
know um I went in for a CAT scan the
other day doctors are like still
surprised that he's alive and they said
this tumor is is still there and it's
growing and they think they can cut it
out now so he was three years on on just
metabolic approach he didn't take any
glutamine Inhibitors which was really
remarkable so so anyway he asked me and
I have I have physician friends that a
radiologist that can look at it and we
measured it when it was first first
diagnosed in 2014 and then we saw it did
become a little bigger so and the now
the surgeon said I think I can get it
looks more more receptable here it was
inoperable now it becomes receptable so
he took it out and um Pablo recovered
really well and uh the surgeon says I
think I got it all wow so so and and
Pablo is measuring his glucose Ketone
index with our Keo monitor so I had
every day sometimes two and three five
years of data on Pablo can you believe
this so so anyway Pablo thinks he's
cured because the the surgeon all of a
sudden he goes back to his kind of weak
weak ways and you can see the his gki
goes up and all of a sudden the tumor
starts to show up again puts the fear of
God back into him goes back on a more
restrict condition another three years
goes by and this time the tumor is
growing slowly very slow don't forget
gleo blastomas kill you very quickly um
with standard of care you can barely get
out of at his age if you can get two
years you're doing you're doing really
good so anyway now he's three and he's
got six years out and he says you know
um uh it's still back you know he I got
to go in so it first so this is second
debul first debul goes off gets back on
another second debulking another three
years goes by he has a third debulking
can you believe this the debulking
debulking is the cutting the tumor out
it's the removal surgical removal of
this tumor but he's never had radiation
or chemo or any of the kinds of stamp
what we call standards of care so for
and now um he he has uh I talked to him
a couple of weeks ago and uh he was
doing he was doing really really good he
had the the third removal and we were
laughing with myself and Dr duer and my
associates he says yeah can you imagine
um uh I've had now three operations on a
previously inoperable
tumor so we were saying wow they got
that wrong didn't they follow and they
kept wanting to irradiate him and do all
this stuff and he said no no going to
keep doing this and so we were speaking
to him and and uh he's out 10 years the
tumor was was diagnosed in in in August
2014 and he passed away August uh
2024 from they try to go in and get the
last bit of tumor out of his brain he
came out of we got him uh we talked to
him a thumbs up smiling talking like
crazy six hours later cereal hemr and
need dies so uh he didn't die from the
cancer he died from the a surgical
problem with the surgery so he was a you
talk about long-term survivors uh you
rarely survive two years with a gleo
blastoma the fact that he was out 10
years and if he hadn't had that last bit
of surgery the guy would have still been
alive because he was talking like you
and I are talking this is a guy who has
a a terminal so I said to Pablo I said
you could outlive me I I says I said
we're all terminal to some extent right
we're never all of us aren't going to
live to I said sure he was a young guy
he was only 20 22 or 23 when he was
diagnosed he was in his 30s now when he
passed away 10 years so he's 33 34 years
old and and I said you know I could be
dead before you and we were laughing and
we had a good time and then next thing I
know I got an email from his wife he
said Pablo is is on on on
on brain dead and something I said what
the hell happened what happened to this
poor guy and it wasn't the cancer so um
who how know I don't know what how long
you would have lived how many more
things but what I'm saying oh he's an
anecdote well listen if I had a drug
that did what what metabolic therapy did
and I could get more people like Pablo
are you kidding me they'd be run running
all over the world and when you say
metabolic therapy you mean the
combination of the calorie restrictive
yeah ketogenic approach yes avoiding
well first of all you're avoiding you're
avoiding things that are going to kill
you the radiation is going to kill you
for the for many people not all people
okay everybody say well well listen you
can you can look at go have people look
at the data themselves for crying out
loud and you can see how long you're
going to live he didn't do what they
what they grab everybody in what did he
do specifically he didn't take radiation
or chemo yeah and he brought his glucose
Ketone index down to the 2.0 Zone and
kept it kept it low and he took some
supplements and a few things here and
there but he wasn't really targeting the
glutamine like we thought it with like
we we thought we we found now certain
parasite medications will be effective
in targeting glutamine so we're doing
all non-toxic strategies to manage
cancer you don't have to be brutalized
by the system if you know what to do and
how to do it the problem the problem is
most of the poor oncologists never heard
of what I'm talking the stuff I'm
telling you right now they never heard
of it the risk is someone gets cancer
that's listening to this or someone has
cancer that that's listening to this I
mean statistically there's a lot of
people listening to this that have
cancer right now and they're speaking to
their doctor and their doctor is saying
chemotherapy radiation therapy etc etc
gluc glucose has nothing to do with
tumor eat whatever you want yeah and so
what' you say to those people who are
they've just got a DI agnosis um and
their doctors are saying right listen
this is pretty bad severe we're going to
suggest that you take chemotherapy yeah
you're not telling them not to take
chemotherapy are you I'm not telling
them that and what we found what we
found is that when you are in uh
nutritional ketosis with a glucose keto
index of 2.0 or below my colleagues that
we work with in Istanbul Turkey were
able to show that chemotherapies at much
lower dosages can be even more
therapeutically powerful when you're in
nutritional ketosis so you don't have to
get rid of a lot of these different
procedures that we have today I'm just
saying radiation for brain cancer I'm
not saying radiation for lung or some of
the other cancers okay because if you
can if you can shrink those tumors down
and make them very weak and vulnerable a
surgical procedure a radiation procedure
even lowd dose chemo could come in and
even immunotherapy if you if you took a
big tumor and shrunk it down to a small
small nub and it's resistant to a lot of
the things they all have to share
something in common for them to survive
have this this path that might be an
immunotherapy could come in because
they're going to Target whatever all of
them have together and you could
possibly get rid of it that way I'm
thinking of a friend of mine that um has
been diagnosed with brain cancer brain
tumor and this is one of the most you
know it's a it's a woman in her 40s or
50s trying to keep her Anonymous as
possible um who is just the most fit
athletic person that I I know eats
amazingly well is literally known for
exercise um and I'd go how how is it
possible that someone who I would
probably say is fitter than I am if you
looked at their sort of metabolic Health
has got a severe brain tumor well it it
they can stay healthy for uh and I'm not
saying everybody who has and it depends
on what kind of a tumor it is as well is
it a gly blastoma alod dendral Goma you
know Panet there's a lot of different
kinds of tumors that want to know that
it's it's not growing necessarily but
it's big and it's in the brain and
they're going to remove
for surgical operation well if they can
what we always suggest for the brain
cancer if you do metabolic therapy up
front and I've had uh surgeons tell me
this uh you can shrink it down because
one of the um one it's angry it's an
angry thing right and you can see some
slight Invasion if you can shrink that
down so that it's more circumscribed now
the surgeon can look at and go oh my God
we we know uh many many scientific
Publications the more you can debolt
that's called the removal of the tumor
debulking the longer the patient will
survive the evidence is massive to
support that but you know with a lot of
these brain tumors you don't get it all
and there's always some little piece
that remains and when you irradiate you
explode the ability to the cells to
ferment energy and it's very hard to
kill them but but if you can get the
majority of it out and then transition
the patient back into a metabolic State
keeping the pressure on those tumor
cells you can remain healthy like Pablo
I mean these these guys can and when you
found in mice is that when ketogenic
diet was combined with a hyperbaric
oxygen therapy the average survival time
was increased by roughly 80% yeah even
more sometimes now but what okay so why
do we hyper do hyperbaric oxygen right
that's the question what's going on with
hyperbaric oxygen why is this like a
good thing it works best when the
patient and the mouse is in nutritional
ketosis okay so look we have a tumor we
iriate that tumor how does the radiation
kill the tumor cells it hits oxygen
blows up and it causes a reactive R and
it's like a a stepping on a landmine it
blows the tumor up right so um cancer
cells protect themselves even though
they make a lot of rust they all they're
this close to death anyway but they have
a very powerful antioxidant system and
interestingly enough that besides
causing the disregulated growth the
glucose and the glutamine also protect
them to some extent from the Ross that
they're making and can you believe this
the Ross r r reactive oxygen species
that are carcinogenic and mutogenic so
they're they destroy our our our
proteins lipids and and nucleic acids
they're disruptive molecules so
radiation will cause a Ross in the micro
environment Ros that'll blow up and kill
cells normal and and tumor cells but but
if you want to selectively kill tumor
cells you with Ross Not to cause your
hair to fall out your gums to bleed and
all this crazy stuff you take the
patient you put him in nutritional
ketosis and you say he's l a low gki
then you go into hyperbaric oxygen which
dissolves oxygen directly into your
blood now it's better than just
breathing 100% oxygen because you can
actually dissolve oxygen in the
bloodstream then you're taking away the
two fuels that protect the tumor and
you're giving it internal Ross which
kills the tumor internally only to the
tumor cell not to your surrounding
tissues so you're killing selectively
killing tumor cells without collateral
damage to your to the rest of your body
as a matter of fact the rest of your
cells are getting super healthy because
they're burning ketones in pure oxygen
unbelievable how do we measure if our um
can you believe this I can't even
believe I'm saying this stuff
myself you really got to know the
biochemistry and you have to know the
physiology of your own body and you have
to understand evolutionary biology most
people just aren't that intelligent
including me it's not
intelligence most people most people
kind of want things
sort of simple principles that they can
live by and Implement and also quick and
easy yeah of course okay they don't want
to do what I'm talking about it because
it might be or the other thing let me
tell you one thing and remember it if
you do metabolic therapy success rides
heavily on your shoulders you're not
sitting there like some Pawn with
mannequin some guy's poison and
radiating you to to make metabolic
therapy work you are the one doing the
gki you're the one in your it's your
soul it's your you're responsible for
your existence on this planet you're G
to put your your precious soul in the
hands of someone who has less of a
knowledge about the the problem than
than you might as an entrepreneur I'm
always looking for ways to connect and
to create and that's why I decided to
launch the conversation cards I turned
to Shopify who also sponsored this
podcast and Shopify made it so easy to
set up an online store and reach all of
you no matter where you are in the world
I remember the challenges we faced when
we first launched the DI Co conversation
cards managing inventory ensuring a SC
this checkout process and reaching our
audience Shopify stepped in and made
everything so straightforward and
efficient it was like having an entire
team of experts by our side allowing us
to focus on creating content and
connecting with you what I love about
Shopify is no matter how big you intend
to grow your business they give you
everything you need to take control and
take your business to the next level and
to say thank you for listening to this
podcast we're giving you a trial which
is just $1 a month and you can sign up
by going to shopify.com Bartlet the link
is in the description destion below
could you be predisposed genetically to
cancer yeah that's what those germine
mutations but you can manage that people
think you know my my grandmother had
breast cancer my mother had breast
cancer so yeah you know they live in a
common environment too it's not like
you're like in order to prove that you
you you and all the siblings would have
to be raised in a different environment
different countries different Lifestyles
and then see if you all got cancer at
the same time under all these different
conditions that's definitely genetic
that's like Huntington's disease tayac
disease or these kinds of things they'll
manifest regardless of the environment
so you saying to me that I should as a
32y old man that's cancer-free um God
willing I think God touchwood um I
should calorie restrict myself to keep
my mitochondria healthy and my
metabolism healthy now I should be in a
in a sort of restri I say it's good to
visit the state our Paleolithic
ancestors had no choice there wasn't a
doughnut shop on every corner there
wasn't pizzas there were there weren't
the kinds of Highly processed
carbohydrate Foods available to them so
should I be fasting should I be doing
keto I you know I don't want to tell you
what you should or should not do I'm not
a physician here I'm a scientist I study
what causes these things and I study how
to manage them you have to read what I'm
saying and you have to come to your own
decisions about how you want to conduct
your life I've given you information
what's your view on fasting fasting is a
powerful uh way to get your body into
nutritional ketosis but it ain't easy
try doing it try you try doing it see
how how easy it it ain't easy right uh
but that's why we developed this
procedure where if you go um rather than
going cold turkey uh say well today I'm
gonna have a big I'm G eat as much as I
can and then tomorrow okay you can go
the I can it's the second third days
when you start to really know what the
hell is going on believe me I've tried
it it's It Ain't Easy that's why we
developed uh a zero carb diet for 14
days 10 to 14 days just zero eat meat
fish chicken whatever you want but just
don't eat any bread pasta this kind of
thing on keto um how do we get into that
sort of ketosis state that people often
talk about measure your glucose Ketone
index how do do that with the the the
keto Mojo meter you can buy it from
Amazon okay okay you can buy now don't
forget they get a free Libra meter now
for the blood they're working on Ketone
blood meters but it's not there yet
right now the keto Mojo or some other
keto meters where you could take a prick
your finger like a diabetic you take a
glucose strip and you put it on the
blood and you put it into the machine it
tells you what your glucose is squeeze
your finger a little bit more take the
Ketone strip touch it to the blood put
it in the meter it gives you the Ketone
value push the button gki comes right up
okay okay very simple everybody can buy
it from from Amazon get the meter buy
the consumables uh and then they can
test it this is what Pablo this is what
all the the cancer patients the ones who
really want to get into metabolic
ketosis I think I've tried keto before
and I say think because I didn't measure
my my keto level I was assuming I did
yeah no it's really people say well I
haven't eaten you know I'm in ketos how
do you know well I blew into this thing
and the bulb came out I peed on a strip
it looked like it was ketosis they are
indirect measures the most accurate is
the blood measure so um it's hard to
stay in that state for most people right
this is one of the things because the
Temptations in our society are so strong
yeah I mean Paleolithic man had no
choice do you think he that was his
State that's all he knew for thousands
and thousands tens of thousand hundreds
of thousands of years that's all he knew
he didn't say let me go down to get a
big jelly fil donnut down at the at the
end of the the river there no there's
none of that he had to live in that
state now we have so many Temptations
all the things that we are biologically
clear for when you see obesity that's
evolution in action they are the
descendants of our long ancestors that
could hold on to energy so efficiently
we were an energy starved species for
the majority of our existence on the
planet so anything we ate would be very
little we never pee out glucose glucose
is converted to fat and we store energy
as fat so those guys are energy
efficient human beings now all of a
sudden we find oursel with everything
and that's Evolution and action man that
we're just we're just you're allowing to
see the how we can store energy so
efficiently because our ancestors liveed
through such um environmental
forcing we had famines we had long TRS
we our body could store energy so
efficiently because it wasn't we had to
store what little we could get from the
environment now you've got you know 300
million Americans in this food
environment where when when they walk
out their front door they see the Dunkin
Donut they can lie in bed and order a
Dunkin Donut to their front during 10
minutes you don't even have to unas the
car they hand it through the window yeah
no energy no energy expenditure energy
in so so you know giving them this
information might be fairly futile
because the tempt well that's I'm not
here to tell people again I'm not here
to tell people what they should or
should not do I'm just here to explain
like why do we have all this not mystery
it's all biological evolution you
understand biological evolution almost
everything that I'm talking about makes
perfect sense um and unfortunately
that's not part of our scientific
literacy anymore so we need what
discipline discipline is important um
discipline is important um you know
every major religion had had a point of
fasting um to be whether you're Islamic
Judaism or whatever Catholicism Hinduism
whatever I don't whatever they always
had some sort of fasting why why you do
fasting because you want to purify your
body you want to become closer to God
you want to you want to you want to feel
in control uh and that's always part and
if you do it with prayer it's even
better so uh there was a reason for
doing all that and uh people realized
the Ancients uh knew this kind of thing
but uh we don't do that anymore uh we
don't go 40 days without food like Jesus
did in the deserts um but a human being
you could absolutely do that I I know
because I can look at your weight I can
look at your size and I can pretty much
tell you how long you can go with before
you died and how do I know that because
George Cahill a good friend late George
kale ran the D jlin diabetes center and
he he he evaluated people that would
just could water only fasting on until
until death and um and some of those
conon MA prison and things so he was
able to know how much you could how long
you could go now what about um Angus
barbar went 377 days uh without food
George Cahill would fast some of these
obese people for for 250 300 days what
happens inside their body with with
they're burning fat so what happens is
you burn fat okay liver stores a lot of
of um bone store the minerals that you
can get minerals from your bones you can
get a lot of fat storage um vitamins are
stored in fat a lot of vitamin D outside
of the weight loss what's going on in
you know we said PE religious people
used to fast to get closer to God yeah
which seems to me to point to some sort
of cognitive change yes and that's from
burning ketones yeah burn when you burn
K I said in the brain when your brain
starts shifting to ketones your energy
uh the bang for the buck for each
calorie that comes in from a ketone body
increases the efficiency of oxidative
phosphorilation so you more focused
massively and you know this is
why our ancestors with the way that if
you're if you are dependent on killing
some animal uh for your survival and you
are out on the hunt you are focused uh
because if you're not focused you're
going to starve to death so every organ
sense organ in our body is super is
super jacked when you're in these
ketotic states so and these guys walking
around with headphones listen you know
all this I mean this is like depriving
ourselves of the natural ways uh of our
ancestry don't forget we're not just you
and I are not just here over the last
you know 100 300 400 years we are the
descendants of members that are same as
us you know hundreds of thousands of
years ago they were they just didn't
have the technology that we have today
but if you could brought a Paleolithic
man from say 500,000 years ago and you
gave him a bunch of donuts and told a he
would die went to heaven you mean to
tell me I don't have to go out and kill
the elk anymore they're going to hand me
the food right through the window of
course he's going to do that
you go in the cave and you throw a bunch
of jelly fil Donuts into a bunch of
Caven who been chewing on the half eaten
rat or something you think they're not
going to eat those jelly donuts they
have a some chimpanzees live with a
family down in Florida I know some
YouTube thing The Chimps they're eating
the food with the family and then they
give jelly sandwiches to The Chimps
banging on the table you think they were
going to go crazy chimpanzees loving the
jelly sandwiches do you have kids
yes what advice would you give to your
children if they're listening to this
now about um how to prevent their chance
of getting sick from cancer or these
other well they probably say well Dad
how come you don't do a lot of the
things first of all I'm not telling I
told you I don't tell anybody what to do
or or how they do it I'm just telling
you the science behind why why things
work um yeah my my my my my children my
two sons and my um they're all very very
successful and uh they they said if we
ever got cancer we would be doing your
we would be doing metabolic therapy if
we were to ever get cancer and I said
just keep you know exercise and and do
what you can do the best you can in our
environment I mean don't get me wrong
I'm eat I'm eating a jelly donut I'm
drinking beer I'm drinking whiskey why
because I like it but I'm not going to
be doing it all the time you know it's
just it's just I'm not going to be
saying oh I'm going to eat pizza sure
but I'm not going to be uh uh not doing
it I do water I do intermittent fasting
I don't eat for 18 20 hours at a time I
do a lot of exercise over at the
university the gym and the facilities
that we have um but I but I understand
and then if I were to get cancer I would
have to um bite the bullet and do what
I'm do what I know works as much as it
wouldn't be pleasurable but it would be
certainly a better alternative than
being radiated and poisoned I'm telling
you that if that has built your
conviction to the point that you're so
convinced that the real issue is this
sort of metabolic dysfunction
um why aren't you optimizing your life
to be sort of metabolically perfect well
because I live in the same Society you
do yeah okay and and fortunately yes our
technology has improved uh
significantly um you know I'm not a monk
I'm not going to be in some Monastery
you know chanting something um I I I am
a member of the society just as you are
and I enjoy the things that we have to
offer us to make our lives a little bit
more pleasurable there's nothing like
sitting down over a nice meal and having
a discussion with some wine and enjoying
it and en jooy the moment but don't but
not to be locked into that kind of uh
diet and lifestyle all the time uh puts
you at risk there's an election going on
in the United States at the moment Trump
versus Camala Harris um if you won the
election and you became president of the
United States and you had to introduce
some regulations or some laws around
food and all of these kinds of things
what would you do well I I think you
know you're were talking about a food
industry you're talking about a
multi-dimensional economy I I would not
again you don't want government to tell
you what you should do you should make
the choices but you have to recognize
are there are there choices and what are
these choices right now we're not in and
we're not seeing or understanding uh how
things harm people if if we have an
obesity epidemic and that would put you
at risk for all these horrific chronic
diseases why do they not know that we we
introduced some regulation in the UK
regarding smoking so you can't smoke
inside anymore well that's but do you
see this your secondhand smoke can
impact negatively the person sitting
next to you this uh uh obese person's
personal choice to be obese is not going
to make you obese or sick so this is a
different kind of a situation um it that
has to come from internal to the person
and they have to be concerned with their
own health what about drugs though like
cocaine is not legal so why can't they
intervene to say you can't have Dunkin
Donuts um because they're both you know
gonna harm the indivual I think you'd
get a revolution if you can't eat a
Dunkin Donut you were not going to get a
revolution if you can't have
C you try take go down here in Brooklyn
and take away all these Donuts from
people you know you're going to see
they're going to go you know it's it's
like it's personal choices I I I I like
Dunkin Donut I mean I like the coffee
especially but um but you can go to
donnut shop and get some of these
crawlers and jelly fills and
Honey Dipped are you kidding me these
things are delicious you ever get these
blueberry muffins you tremble while you
eat some of this stuff you know it's and
I'm not going to take that away from me
but if I want one I'm not going to be oh
every day I got to eat no I just don't
eat it I on the weekend I might get one
and even sometimes two or three weeks
months go by before I'll get one you
know but uh but when you get it man you
enjoy it you really love it are you
hopeful I am very hopeful because PE
when the science comes you can't
suppress the truth it's going to come
out the evidence the scientific evidence
is there I'm documenting this scientific
and it's based on the shoulders of OT
warberg are you kidding me I mean this
was a giant in the field of biochemistry
it's not like I made this stuff up I'm
just extending what he has done to a new
dimension and putting it into a
practical application which he had never
done so it's just an extension of of of
the knowledge base o over this time why'
you care so much why do I care so much
you know I'm not in it for the
you know what I'm in it for I want to
see the the scientific
principles
substantiated if you know that you can
keep these people alive at a higher
quality of life based on the knowledge
of the science that's doing that that's
gratification man it's gratification to
know that these if because because you
arise on understanding the mechanism of
the problem and if you say you know if
we do it the way we're writing a big
treatment protocol as we speak it's
review a really comprehensive treatment
protocol and we Institute that in the
clinic and for G blastoma patients and
these Advanced cancers they're not
they're not living a few extra months
they're living several years longer why
because you knew the science what's
wrong with that that's that's
gratification you don't have to make a
billion dollars on that all you have to
know is that all those folks are living
longer because you understood the
science that was put into practical
application what's WR that's our our
research is supported by philanthropy
and private foundations that money
allows me to to to do these experiments
to test what I'm testing on pre-clinical
models and then we translate it back
into the clinic directly and we see like
Pablo Kelly he should have been done he
should have been done years and years
ago he lived all those years extra he's
had a wife and he's got kids he didn't
have to have his sperm Frozen he didn't
have to have any of that stuff done
what's wrong with that keep I'm seeing
people that are should have been dead a
long time ago and they're still alive
and they're saying I'm doing fine I get
calls from people geez I thought that
guy would have been a goner he's still
alive he's doing well I said that that
keeps me going because it tells me that
we're on the right path this is a
solvable problem this cancer this cancer
can be dropped significantly you can
take away the fear people now put the
put it on their shoulders I know what to
do how to do it I'm going to follow this
will it work for everybody no well it
will help a lot of people much more than
what we have today but it's Paradigm
change massive paradigm change so uh
they will come to know it's just a
matter of time I don't know how long
it's going to take but I ain't going
anywhere I'm continuing to do this I'm
going to get better and better results
and we're going to keep pushing I
published these case reports in the
scientific literature let the scientific
field uh make their decision on the
results from these papers and if you are
to succeed what happens people improve
um what I'm not going to live forever so
but I know that what I've done with with
following Auto warberg and cleaning up
the misconceptions and misunderstanding
of why he he was stalled when the field
ran off chasing jeans we got to bring
bring it back on track it's a metabolic
problem with metabolic U Solutions so
that will help a lot of people but it's
also going to change a lot of way people
are thinking about this but I I can tell
you they want to open clinics I get
calls from from Asia Africa South
America they want to open clinics people
are being brutalized by a system that's
not working don't forget besides the
terrible Financial tox the personal
physical toxicity people have gone
bankrupt their marriages are falling
apart because they can't pay for the
expensive drugs on these cancer things
and they die and the bills are passed on
to their level this is immoral stuff is
there a particular case study that's
broken your heart more than any others
Trudy Dupont who originally let me we we
built a glucose Ketone index calculator
on her Pablo is I'm still we're still
ated by Pablo's loss because Pablo was a
a guy that I've known for 10 years
worked him through and then all of a
sudden he gets a cerebral hem and dies
he was our poster child for how long you
could live with a gleo blastoma on
metabolic therapy but he didn't die from
the cancer um yeah have there's some
others that we wished they could have
lived a little bit longer uh with the
appropriate help what I find is that
sometimes within the family there's a
lot of the guy he's I really want to do
what you're doing but my wife and kids
saying I'm foolish to do that so it's
it's still a very we're in a very early
stage of this we haven't really worked
it out into a an effective standard yet
it will come so people and the other
members of the family get super help
when they all work together and they do
it everybody says I never felt so
healthy in my life um gu tanom had
Advanced prostate cancer he wrote a book
and he's on the web and he had
hypertension high blood pressure
overweight more obesity and all
everything and then he does uh 18
several 18-day water only fasts got
himself everything all these things went
away his diabetes went away his
hypertension high blood pressure and the
cancer can't be found so is he cured I
have no idea but but he's managed yes
he's managed and he's healthier so
what's wrong with that isn't that isn't
that ultimately what medicine wants to
do keep people alive longer and a
healthier quality of life yeah how many
more do we need they say oh that's a
fluke that's a fluke that's a fluke
that's a fluke that's a fluke how many
damn flukes do you want if there's
someone listening now and I'm sure
there's going to be many thousands and
tens of thousands of people listening um
that are
currently battling cancer have early
stage
diagnosis I know I feel bad about this
because people say oh I want to do
medicab bolic therapy where can I go and
they go to their local hospital and get
slapped down there's no evidence there's
everything that's should come out of my
mouth has never been taught to me in
medical school so what do you say to
those
people you know I say I I say the
I I'm sorry that the medical
establishment has not come to recognize
what I'm saying and then I tell them WR
your c i i you know it's it's the change
has to be coming from the people ain't
going to come from the top medical
schools they they are doing what they're
doing very the status quo is very
profitable the status quo is very
effective for these people but it's not
helping the cancer patient uh as well as
it can and don't forget we're not
throwing out all this stuff we're just
asking people to know how to use the
tools we have in a better way we don't
have to throw out immunotherapies
radiation we don't have to throw out
toxic poisons we just have to know
better how to use it when the patient is
in this new state and the data will
prove it but who's going to do that
who's going to do that the doctor says
I'd love to do this if I but I'm going
to lose my license if I do it what
what's going on with that they wrote the
standard of care as if it were in
granted can't be changed no it should be
flexible when new evidence comes I don't
believe your evidence what number do you
not believe what what piece of science
do you not believe on this well I
haven't read it they you can't be right
when 99% of the world says it's this way
and you're saying it's something
different that's confirmation bias
you're not looking at the numbers and
then when they get cancer they come hey
what can you do for me you know it's
like it's like that but yes it has to
change it will change because we're on
the momentum to move it it's people are
coming to know this and once the change
happens it's going to be like a a major
major change and people people are going
to have to just readjust
Thomas we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it for and the question that's been left
for you is imagine the end of your life
your closest friends and family are at
your funeral what do you imagine or hope
they say about
you he changed the course of cancer
treatment for the world
it that's it Dr Thomas
seed that is exactly what you're doing
and I think that's an
extremely you know I can't even find a
word that describes the profundity of
such a mission um because so many people
are struggling with cancer as if it is
this sort of opaque black box of a
disease that strikes us at random and
picks on people like roulette um and
debilitates their lives out of the blue
and having more information out there
about the root causes of these issues
turns the lights on and allows us to go
in search of better solutions to what
has always been a really really complex
hard to understand disease your work
runs almost entirely I believe on
philanthropic donations right that's
right so that's people that um they make
donations to both the my University
Boston College which is a Jesuit
university in Chestnut Hill
Massachusetts and we we follow the
Jesuit philosophy of service to others
predominantly um and uh private
foundations so if someone wants to make
a donation where do they go do they go
to your website I know there's a
donation button there uh they they go
primarily to our University they can
just um they have a on my on my
University biology web page there's a
donation button and Travis
christopherson's foundation for
metabolic cancer therapies which is a
503 uh Foundation he he supports our
research through philanthropic donations
to his foundation I would um urge anyone
that wants to support your mission to go
to your University website there's a
donation button there which I saw it
earlier on click that button and they
can make a donation if they that's right
and and and and that and and Travis
Christ christopherson's Foundation okay
which is the foundation for cancer
metabolic therapies it's a 503 uh
Foundation Travis christopherson's when
people email me I send them the the
links to those to those found I cannot
accept personally any money from anybody
okay that's one thing that's one thing
I'm not here so people say oh I want to
give you money to do it no no no I can't
you have to give it to the university
that comes through me through the
appropriate channels to support my
research through the university Dr
Thomas C thank you so much for your time
today and I'm I'm I'm hugely inspired
and um enlightened by everything we've
discussed and I think there's a bunch of
very straightforward practical things
I'll be implementing in my life
specifically buying one of those bloody
machines so that I can keep on in my GK
index yeah gki gki index yeah glucose
Ketone index well listen thank you very
much for having me here because your
your programs and others um alert people
to know that there are alternatives
effective Alternatives and once the
system changes uh the outcomes will not
be so Bleak as we currently have them
[Music]
today isn't this cool every single
conversation I have here on the D at the
very end of it you'll know I ask the
guest to leave a question in the Diary
of a CEO and what we've done is we've
turned every single question written in
the Diary of a CEO into these
conversation cards that you can play at
home so you've got every guest we've
ever had their question and on the back
of it if you scan that QR code you get
to watch the person who answered that
question we're finally revealing all of
the questions and the people that
answered the question the brand new
version 2 updated conversation cards are
out right now at Theon conversation
cards.com they've sold out twice
instantaneously so if you are interested
in getting hold of some limited edition
conversation cards I really really
recommend acting quickly
[Music]
oh